
The “single captain and unquestioningly obedient crew” example bothers me, since it reminds me of how we worship the “lone genius,” the single flawless visionary steering a corporation to the promised land. Winner portrays it as necessary in the an extreme scenario, that of safeguarding a nuclear bomb, but I feel like that model is still employed in less dire scenarios to the detriment of everyone involved (such as the recent scandals with tech CEOs, where their compounding failures are ignored to keep their leadership, and dissenting whistleblowers are thrown overboard).

I hadn’t heard of the Moses example before, but it was hardly surprising. I’ve often seen many of these discussions about the politics of public space. (The article was written in 1980 - I would consider the internet now to be one of our public spaces). For example, skip-stop circulation, the practice of putting elevators that stop on every other floor, was built to encourage people to use the stairs and increase socialization. This has been utilized in the Cooper Union building and numerous other buildings by the architecture firm Morphosis. However, disabled individuals are forced to use the freight elevators tucked out of the way, a case of “separate but equal”. Despite these criticisms, Morphosis has continued to employ skip-stop circulation in subsequent buildings.

QUOTE:
“In our times people are often willing to make drastic changes in the way they live to accord with technological innovation at the same time they would resist similar kinds of changes justified on political grounds.”
