## Does technology have politics? 'Yes' and 'No' for me. 

For yes, it does have it's agency because it was born from human's mind. Whether it was developed or discovered, it started with person's certain intention. Therefor no because I think technology itself doesn't have politics nor inherently political. It can only be political because we are looking with human perspective. But it doesn't mean that we should not think about how to use technology is neutral. Moreso we must consider various perspective of consequences, accidental effects because we as agency can effect social partied, environment by ways of using technology. 

  I wonder what Winner would have wrote when interwebz was available when he wrote this. Thinking about how generous and space of freedom it was when starting of internet(WorldWideWeb). Thanks to easier access to World Wide Web, there is no denying the fact that life now is structured around various negotiations with information. It is carefully curated and filtered by search engines we use, which can easily shape our thoughts and perspective by making certain information more visible and vise versa. For example now 'Google' won't let you see certain auto-search result because it is offensive. Okay, sure it can me offensive and it hurts when auto-search result shows me 'Asian woman is golddigger' but blocking and hiding the fact that many english speakers are searching this doesn't make me feel better either. In fact these misconception is hidden behind political correctness which causes more problem. 

  It is so overwhelming though thinking about technology and figuring things out in 'right way' or 'better way'. Since everything is moving so fast and I really can't keep up with it. Just adjusting to new technology is hard for me. I keep forgetting that beyond interfaces, networks, infrastructure and system, on the other end is human being. I guess I just have to keep my eyes, ears, and heart open to all of surroundings and try my best to see what is hidden and what kind of 'habit' we are developing around technology.

## Quote
> The theory of technological politics draws attention to the momentum of large-scale sociotechnical systems,to the response of modern societies to certain technological imperatives, and to the all too common signs of the adaptation of human ends to technical means.

> By "politics," I mean arrangements of power and authority in human associations as well as the activities that take place within those arrangements. For my purposes, "technology" here is understood to mean all of modern practical artifice, but to avoid confusion I prefer to speak of technology, smaller or larger pieces or systems of hardware of a specific kind.

>If we suppose that new technologies are introduced to achieve increased efficiency, the history of technology shows that we will sometimes be disappointed. Technological change expresses a panoply of human motives, not the least of which is the desire of some to have dominion over others, even though it may require an occasional sacrifice of cost-cutting and some violence to the norm of getting more from less.

>  In our times people are often willing to make drastic changes in the way they live to accord with technological innovation at the same time they would resist similar kinds of changes justified on political grounds. If for no other reason than that, it is important for us to achieve a clearer view of these matters than has been our habit so far.
