Response to Do Artifiacts Have Politics

The first half of the essay resonates with thoughts and experiences I’ve had with technologies. From the standpoint of a creator, in my work as a designer and engineer I am constantly thinking about how to design for inclusivity. An example that Winner mentions is the needs of the disabled and I’ve often had the ADA Standards for Accessible Design handbook at my side checking everything from width clearances for wheelchairs and overhang requirements for cane users. It is very easy to overlook these aspects, and of no fault or ill intention of the designer. I think it’s of utmost importance for designers and engineers, and those that are educators of the next generation of these creators, to address these issues of exclusivity/inclusivity. 

In regards to being a consumer and user of technology (as well as a member of society), I view the advent of ride sharing services as a prime example of the pitfalls of negligence in viewing the entire picture of the effects of said technologies. There’s no denying that ride sharing services like Uber and Lyft are a major upgrade for the consumer in terms of the product of on demand transportation. However, the negative effects these services have on the livelihoods of taxi drivers and other traditional transportation providers often goes ignored, at least by the ride share companies. Also, these companies purport to make transportation within cities more efficient by taking cars off the road by providing alternative means of transportation. In reality it decreases the efficiency of moving throughout the city on the whole, due to both the shear influx of more personal vehicles, the lack of experience in city driving of the ride share drivers, and the lack of enforcement in regulation of driving/parking/pick up/drop off practices of their drivers. Personally, I do not oppose these services, but I do not support these companies and won’t do so until they hold themselves more accountable to the greater effects their services have on the larger community. If a companies tunnel vision only includes their customers and all customers are just dollar signs, that’s a company I would be reluctant in patronizing, regardless of how great the customer experience may be. I’m a member of my community, city, and society first, before I am a consumer.

There was also a point made by the author about precedent. When a technology is new, getting it right is even more important, than trying to go back and change things after a technology has been adopted and implemented. I see this issue right now in technologies like autonomous vehicles, gene editing, and net neutrality. It’s immensely important to take the time, care, and effort to set good precedents, not just as a basis to work off of in the future, but because of the unavoidable legal ramifications. The western justice system is built upon precedents, as exemplified by the US Supreme Court regularly making decisions on modern day social issues while citing past decisions from centuries past.

Lastly, I came away from the reading aware of a dilemma. Often the money that funds research and drives advancement in technology comes from people and organizations that already hold immense power by nature of their wealth. I think all but the wealthy themselves would agree that this is not the ideal situation. However, it’s an unfortunate fact that these advancements would be impossible to achieve, at least at a noticeable and difference making pace, without this influx of big money. I do believe that all research is beneficial. Every advancement in technology adds to the collective human knowledge and capability. Even if a specific new technology does not necessarily make a real impact on the improvement of human lives, it does push us further along and closer to eventual breakthrough. So what can we do? 
