Technologies are deeply entwined with our social and economic systems. For this reason alone, it's important to think critically about the ways in which technologies embody power and authority. Making the choice to adopt or develop a given technology affects the distribution of power, authority, and privilege in communities. In kind, the choices we make in designing and arranging technology are equally important. One example of design affecting privilege in communities is the overpasses built by Robert Moses, one of New York's great builders in the 20th century. The highways and bridges Moses built favored the use of cars over public transit. Many overpasses were too low for busses to get underneath, which made it difficult for low income largely black communities in New York to leave the city and get out to the beaches. If we view a bridge as neutral tool that can be used for a variety of purposes, good or bad, we will never consider the logical (or temporal) consequences of the way a design comes to fruition. Of increasing importance is considering the ways in which digital technologies are built. Digital technologies are often built in an open, distributed, highly iterative manner. The high rate of change and increasing number of (possibly anonymous) contributors require greater attention to truly understand consequences. Take Blockchain technology for example— a tool shaped by scientific development, technological innovation, social processes and corporate profit— a tool with many different types of potential to order human activity. How is it being developed? How are decisions about the techology structured? What are the different degrees of power people hold with regard to these decisions? What are the levels of awareness regarding the decisions? As we adopt quick-changing digital innovations, I hope we take time to step away from the hype to consider the rules, roles and relationships embedded in technologies themselves. I hope we go beyond a dialog of what tools could be used for and consider the ways in which the tools are built.
