The author indicates artifacts have political qualities in two main varieties. On one hand, the embodied design or arrangement of a system created by people who keep absolute political stand and exclusivity obviously. Vice versa, the system enhances the social actors. On the other, one intangible force requires technology are inevitably linked to some certain pattern of power and authority no matter within capitalist or socialist context. The two aspects overlap and intersect at many points. For instance, when one concrete company-running issue in front of the entrepreneur, he/she usually chooses to design a clear hierarchic operating system to manage the the firm efficiently. On one side, it, in some extent, exploits proletarian surplus value according to Karl Marx; it, however, maintains the company operating effectively that it will offer all the employees salaries to survive, to provide thousands of families a warm and safe night. If the company-running issue seems relatively easy to be dealt with or reformed, the country-running dilemma will be much complicated, especially when the issue touches citizen’s safety at large. Nuclear weapon is one of the very complicated situations we are facing. Let’s simplify it into another example: the guns. With the guns, people are able to attack the enemy. It seems neutral even to be named “justice”, but there is no doubt that the substance of the gun is for “slaughter” which demands a profoundly political attitude that is: I am right and you are wrong; I deserve to be alive but you don’t. This is hierarchy derives from human’s self-centralization while people are in a scenario that they have to compete and fight for the a better or the only resource to live, otherwise to die. Accordingly, is our sin should be blamed on us or for the gene in our blood, the animal who’s living in the law of the jungle? Upgrading the example back to the nuclear weapons, after being well educated and being a man, will a president has the determination to give up the nuclear weapon thoroughly once he has already possessed it, particularly as his people’s, his families’ and his own life being threatened? Will the nation support him? It perhaps that the hierarchy, bias, discrimination, selfishness, jealousness, all these bad values, are existing in everyone’s body as well as the pursuit to happiness and love. The artifact, technology is merely the avatar of the society which is embodied who we are, unfortunately, including the crucial side - our incurable pride and prejudice. 
