The silky smooth bluegrass he was laying on reminded him of the Kentucky countryside where he was born. The sun hadn't moved in hours; frozen in the sky just as it was setting - filling the scene with beautiful hues of orange and purple. Normally this might worry him, but in this moment he was instead overcome with feelings of innocent joy and a childlike comfort.

He was picking an apple from a tree nearby when he noticed his mother off in the distance walking towards him. His excitement was immeasurable as he hadn't seen her since he was a child. Her affectionate smile filled him with warmth as she approached. As she gently embraced him she spoke softly into his ear "Thank you for using Dreamify. This dream was brought to you by Amazon Elite - now offering 5 minute delivery of over 20 million products in select cities." He was overcome with a calm feeling of confusion as she continued "Upgrade to Dreamify Premium today to unlock ad free dreams, unlimited nightmare skips, and unrestricted daydreams." His reality slowly dissolved into nothingness as the sound of his alarm clock surrounded him.

It was 4:03am when he awoke in his tiny apartment. For a moment he considered upgrading his Dreamify account but quickly remembered there was no way he could afford it with only the salary of a museum conservator - but corporate sponsored dreams were better than no dreams at all. Understandably annoyed he reached over to silence his alarm and noticed a tapping coming from the window across the room. Overcoming the urge to shut his eyes and rest just a little longer he jumped out of bed to investigate. He found another delivery drone lost and seemingly confused as to why it could not complete its delivery. He swatted it away with one of his rare vintage phonebooks - this one happened to be one of the last ones ever printed from 2018. He sat for a moment flipping through its pages and admiring the absurdity of the books existence.

He prepared himself for his daily assault as his personal assistant bot approached him. In one graceful movement it forced a toothbrush into his mouth, ran a comb through his hair, scraped his face with a razor, and deposited an army of antimicrobial nanobots under his armpits. It then presented him with the clothes which its algorithms had decided he wanted to wear today. He briefly considered arguing over the choice of shirt and the giant Google logo laid out on the front but quickly came to the conclusion that his assistant probably knew best.

Going over his agenda for the day as he makes his way into work he notices he will be showing off the SFPC historical collection from the museums private archives - one of his most favorite selections. He finds something special about the physical connections people used to have with these machines - the physical monitors, keyboards, and mice all seem so needless now that everything is connected and controlled through a neural lace. Computing is no longer just a set of instructions created by a human. It is more a conversation between a human and a machine.
