I found this article quite confusing and contradictory in parts. One of the main points of this article is that art activism is inherently useless because it is “infected” with art, defining art as only things that are “nonusable, inefficient, obsolete.” “And this means that art cannot be used as a medium of a genuine political protest—because the use of art for political action necessarily aestheticizes this action, turns this action into a spectacle and, thus, neutralizes the practical effect of this action.” I’m not saying that artistic activism can supplant social and political activism, but it can supplement it. The spectacle of art can be distracting, but art can also aid in raising greater awareness, the first step toward action. This is also directly in opposition to the Disobedient Objects book (“There are many ways art and design practices can be politically active”).

“Modern and contemporary art wants to make things not better but worse—and not relatively worse but radically worse: to make dysfunctional things out of functional things, to betray expectations, to reveal the invisible presence of death where we tend to see only life.
...This is why modern and contemporary art is not popular. It is not popular precisely because art goes against the normal way things are supposed to go.” This assumes that the popularity (in the moment) of a movement is an indicator of its ultimate worth. For example, Picasso’s Guernica is now recognized as a significant anti-war painting, but it was not “popular” at the time, and was criticized for depicting a depressing reality. 
