# Do artifacts have politics? - Langdon Winner

The author asks if the political problem of technology is due to the technology itself or due to the social and economical forces in which they are embedded. Technology can’t be good or evil, says the author, because what matters are the reason it was developed for. Anyway, technology can impact the society, because it changes people's behaviour by building new orders in our world. Facing impacts generated by modern development, the author proposes there are two ways to deal with it: the first is related with supporting or being against new technology, whilst the second is related to choosing the way that technology is modified. The author concludes artifacts doesn’t have politics itselves, but we have to take care of the social context they were developed and the reasons underlying on it.

# On Art Activism - Boris Groys

Contemporary art activism is not necessary beautiful because it’s ethos is to move against a political order. It doesn’t rush to abandon art but tries to make art itself useful.
The author proposes that aestheticization has two sided: one at revolution and other at modernity. The first one is related with design and appears after French Revolution. The aim of this way of aestheticization is to make things or tools seem to be more interesting and is related with the re-signification of concepts. Was born after the Revolution when the revolutionary government instead of destroying sacred profane objects belonging to the Old Regime, they defunctionalized, changed the meaning. The second one - aestheticizing modernity - is related with defunctionalizing modernity to reveal the ideology of progress as phantasmal and absurd, and raises after Industrial Revolution - in 1900’s. Finally, the author says modern and contemporary art wants to make things not better bt worse, that it is is not popular, precisely because art goes against the normal way things are supposed to go.
