"On Art Activism" initially addresses one of the problems I have struggled with most recently in regards to art. I've actually already read this paper in an art activism class I took earlier this year. This class was especially challenging for me precisely because of the contradiction that Groys outlines - the inherent contradiction in the concept of "art activism." How can art both *defunctionalize* the status quo and seek to improve it?! Groys claims to solve this contradiction via his long explanation of aestheticization. Understanding the two opposing definitions of aestheticization (one for *design* and one for *art*) is crucial, and given the right definition, "one can aestheticize the world - and at the same time act within it." 

To be perfectly honest, I'm still having trouble reconciling this problem. Groys' solution doesn't make a ton of sense to me; I'd love to talk about this more! Even so, his explanation about aestheticization in and of itself **does** resonate with me and frames modern and contemporary art in a way I have never considered before. Since I don't have as much of an art background, I sometimes have a hard time "making sense" of modern art. Beyond my own opinions, modern art is unpopular because it's not "art" in the traditional sense (a lot of people claim things like "my 5 year old could do that"). I really like the way Groys addressed this by essentially saying, "that's the point!" Modern art is supposed to betray expectations and defunctionalize the very things modern society tries so desperately to cling to as "real." I love this perspective; it really lends an ironic/sarcastic tone to it all that I can definitely get behind. 
