Facing to the critique of art activism that “fails on the pragmatic and practical level -  on the level of its immediate social and political impact”, the author, Boris Groys, defends for social activism. According to the other critics’ perspective, social activism seems to be doomed failure, since one component of social activism, art, is useless which means it undermines people’s will(ditermination) to change the status quo. However, Groys indicates that we need to precisely analyze the meaning of political function of the word “aestheticization”, for this word leads a state of confusion, the division of contemporary art practice into two domains: art (the aestheticizaition of politics) and design (the politicization of aesthetics). 

Groys considers the notions of artistic aestheticization and design aestheticizaiton are divergent and contradictory. Specifically, design attempts to change the status quo while art accepts the status quo accompanying within a “negative” way as dysfunctionalization. The author following says: the fact of contemporary art activism as the heir of these two contradictory traditions of aestheticization is a good thing, because on one hand, it reveals the word profound meaning; on the other, “only art indicates the possibility of revolution as a radical change beyond the horizon of our present desire and expectations”.

Accordingly, Groys illustrates the “U-Turn” theory. He interprets that modern and contemporary art wants to make things radically worse, “to betray expectation, to reveal the invisible presence of death”. That is, a genuine political transformation will succeed because of the insight of philosophical metanoia which is so-called the U-turn: the reversal of upward mobility. The metanoia annuls human potential and natural gift which slaves and exhausts people who fall in the illusion of pursuit to beauty and attraction. In fact, it is the era of total aestheticization which enhance the political action through proving the status quo dying, dead, obsolete, abolished, ineffective and deconstructed in a revolutionary perspective. Therefore, the author finally responds to other critics’ view: the doomed failure and uselessness of aestheticization of contemporary social activism (art activism) merely manifests its true value in politic action.

Q: Any example demonstrates modern and contemporary art depicts the world being already a corpse? How to understand it? 

The auther seems agree the other critic's critique to the art activism (the doomed failure) actually. But he changes the word "uselessness" to "U-turn (the reversal of upward mobility)". He also seems to aesthiticize the art activism, isn't he?
