"What Can an Algorithm Do"

Wow! That was dense! The highly complex theme coupled with highly complex (perhaps unnecessarily complex?) terminology made it somewhat hard to follow. I think I was able to get somewhat of a grasp, but I am looking forward to supplementing that with what we discuss tomorrow.

Even so, one point stuck out to me that I was able to connect with. Overall, Scannell is saying that predictive analytics (i.e. big data) are quite literally whitewashing these notions of crime and inequality and urban geography in general. "The city becomes a network of neutralized, empty, racially homogenous highways that mimic the lines and contours of a microchip." Because it is created within "heteropatriarchal racial capitalism," it defines crime and the "ideal city" through that lens. Ultimately, "the entire city is expected to live in imitation of privileged whites. This is the logic of Jim Crow. It is the logic of the plantation. It is also the logic of the present." 
Big data becomes this sort of scapegoat of false objectivity where those who use it can deny all responsibility in the racist, unjust outcome because it's just "in the data." Furthermore, this concept of "objectivity"/"cleanliness" in predictive analytics suggest that big data is supposed to clean up all of our human messiness. In doing so, these systems "seek to eliminate the social from sociality — an aesthetic decision." This is something Scannell criticizes heavily - as do I. The point is this: humans do not act rationally. This is a huge argument in modern psychology (and something that I've studied a lot). Crime - and social issues in general - operate by imperfect, inherently human processes. Using strictly rational processes to understand them will always leave something out. 
Perhaps where Scannell and I differ is that Scannell seems adamantly opposed to predictive analytics at all. My position, at this point, isn't quite as drastic - I think that if - and only if - predictive analytics are able to recognize the above theme and abandon the ideal of the "perfectly rational," then something better may be possible. 
